# gwRPG - Grey World Ruleset

The code in this repositiory is being developed to model the functiong of RPGs running the Grey World Ruleset; an unreleased system created by a personal friend. The eventual goal is to fully implement the details of the system, and then to enshrine it in a program similar to what *anathema* is for Exalted games.


A (highly incomplete) guide to system mechnics and features in english follows.

------

##Base Stats

Every character in a game running the Grey World Ruleset has seven, and *only* seven Base Stats. Six of these stats represent character attributes, and the last represents how close the character is to leveling up their *Class*.

Unlike most RPGs, however, your Base Stats are not integers. They're complex numbers. This is because each Base Stat can be enhanced along two broad conceptual paradigms.

The Base Stats are as follows:

###PHS, Physicality

This stat represents your character's ability to use their body. Increasing Real grants Strength (ST), while Imaginary Physicality grants Speed (SP).


###RES, Resistance

This stat represents your character's ability to endure harm. Increasing Real grants Vitaity (VT), while Imaginary Resistance grants Immunity (IM).


###INS, Instinct

This stat represents your character's ability to think on their feet. Increasing Real grants Flow (FL), while Imaginary Instinct grants Wits (WT).


###INT, Intellect

This stat represents your character's ability to use their mind. Increasing Real grants Systemics (SM), while Imaginary Intellect grants Ideation (ID)


###PER, Perception

This stat represents your character's ability to use their senses. Increasing Real grants Insight (IS), while Imaginary Physicality grants Nullsense (NS)


###EXS, Existence

This stat represents your character's reality. Increasing Real grants Adaptability (AP), while Imaginary Existence grants Dissonance (DS)


###CLV, Class Level

This stat represents your character's ability to understand and surpass their limits. There are no set names for the Real and Imaginary parts of this stat, and the stat itself is only reffered to as CLV/Class Level when the actual Class of the charater is indeterminate, or irrelevant.

When the class is known, the stat is reffered to with a three-letter abbreviation of the class name, eg, TNS/Transcendent, ZRO/Zero, etc.

If it is necessary to refer to the Derived Stats generated by the Real or Imaginary parts of this stat specifically, the abreviations are CR, and CI.

##Derived Stats

Each of the Base Stats is used to calculate two Derived Stats. Unlike Base Stats, which are always positive complex numbers greater than or equal to 1, Derived Stats run from -7 to 7, and have no complex part.

-7 is equivalent to having no ability whatsoever - a character with this stat autofails all rolls involving it.

0 is a thoroughly average example of a member of a given Class.

7 represents world-class perfection

To determine a Derived Stat is a somewhat involved calculation. This section is somewhat verbose, to facilitate such calculations by those who do not wish to use the provided software.

Three numbers are needed to begin calculating a given Derived Stat. These are the base seven logarithm of the real/imaginary part of the Base Stat (henceforth called the Stat Value), and the base 7 log of the imaginary/real part of the Base Stat (henceforth Opposing Value), and finaly, the Offset of the Opposing Value.

If the Opposing Value is zero, then the Stat Value (rounded to 3 places) is the value of the Derived Stat.

If the opposing value is *not* zero and the Offset *is*, subtract the Opposing Value from the Stat Value (Sval - Oval), *to a minimum of 0* - if Sval - Oval = -1, decrease Sval to 0, not -1. Then subtract half of the value of the Oval from the Stat Value (let's call this the Global Debuff). The result is the Derived Stat.

If the Opposing Value is *not* zero, and the Offset is *also* not zero, subtract the Offset from the Opposing Value (Oval - Os), *to a minimum of zero*. Then, if the Opposing Value is still greater than zero, subtract it from the Stat Value. Then subtract half of the value of the Oval from the Stat Value. The result is the Derived Stat.

Once all of the Derived Stats have been calculated, it's time to figure out how much of the Global Debuffs get removed. This is a fun little math problem that involves finding the lengths of overlapping line segments, while counting how many such segments overlap. Anyone interested in the algorithm is free to read the python source code for it at github.com/inakiam/gwRPG/Stats.py

It involves a recursive search, but in broad concept it functions like this: each stat is a line segment with a length equal to it's value.  When one stat overlaps with another a portion of the Global Debuff gets taken away. This portion is equal to a seventh of the length of the overlapping area for each stat involved in the overlap that isn't the stat that we're calculating the Global Debuff removal for (so if two stats are overlapping, then each removes 1/7th the length of the overlap of debuff from the other). The Global Debuff can be decreased to a minimum of zero in normal circumstances.

However: If seven Derived Stats, *none of which share a common Base Stat* overlap, then the length of that region, instead of subtracting from the Global Debuff, is derectly added to the value of the Derived Stats.

##Offsets

Offsets are permanent status effects applied to Derived Stats that allows you to have an amount of that stat equal to the offset without harming its complementary Derived Stat.

##Rolls

All die rolls that involve more than one statted things are contested. 



##Class

The Grey World Ruleset relies heavily on the concept of classes to determine your character's abilities with relation to others. Balance is largely left in the hands of they players - if you play a vanilla mortal, and attempt to challenge something like a god, you'll be crushed every time.

In addition to these basic modifiers, classes

##Level Up

Unlike most RPGs, leveling up in the Grey World System is tres easy. The exact EXP requirements vary by game, and possibly class, but the distance between each level is fixed. If it costs you 50 exp to get to LV 1, then you'll need 450 more to get to LV 10. There is no level cap.

Each new level gained grants a fixed amount of SP. SP (S Points) are used to increase your Base Stats as well as the level of your Personal Specialisations.

##Class Up

Six of the seven Base Stats represent your character's attributes. The seventh base stat represents your character's understanding of the abilities and limitations inherent in their class. When you max out the real or imaginary part of this stat as a *minimal* condition, you'll gain the ability to Class Up. A Class Up is instant, and offers no immediate benefits or drawbacks save those mandated by class changes - if you're playing a Class with a certain special ability, and Class Up to one that doesn't share it, you lose it. (SP invested are also lost, since there's a wholly unlimited amount of the things availible to you.)

When your character goes through Class Up, their Offsets and Base Stats are scaled by the Disparity between the two classes. For example, if you Class Up to a Class that has all of its stats multiplied by 2 against yours, your stats will be scaled such that your *Derived* stats have been divided by 2 after they are calculated; and your Offsets will likewise be modified.

It must be noted that if your new Class is actually at a *disadvantage*, stats and offsets will be scaled up, instead of down. The maximum value of Stats and Offsets are capped at 7, and any overflow is permanently lost.

The Class Up mechanic permanently alters your character's potential, but not their power (unless you failed to plan ahead for the next class, or had to change your plans, and go to a class incapable of storing your Offsets or Stats).


##Basic Combat

###Damage Level

There are several levels of Imaginary Damage possible

Basic, Aggravated, Extreme, Toxic, Critical, Lethal, Almighty

Basic ID follows the rules above this section.

Aggravated ID, upon being reified, does twice the damage of Basic ID. To achieve Ag ID requires attacking previously inflicted ID with an element that ID is weak to (Fire ID needs to be attacked with water).

Extreme ID does four times the damage. Achieving it requires Ag ID to be attacked by an element that the newest component is weak to (Fire ID made Ag ID by a Water attack onthe previous turn needs to be hit with Earth, Plant, or Elec)

Toxic ID acts as Extreme ID, but also drains a small amount of HP every turn until total HP is less than the ID. This effect cannot be mitigated. Achieving it requires hitting Ex ID with an attack that the newest component is strong against.

Critical ID lingers throughout the fight. Nothing can remove it; but its position is also fixed, and if the opponents HP falls below it, then reifying it does nothing. Achieving it requires the Base ID to be an element that the target is weak to, at it's root (eg, if the target is currently weak to fire, and only fire, the Base ID must be fire, for the targeted ID to be Aggravated, and for the attack to constitute an element that both elements involved in the Ag Id are weak to.

Lethal ID acts as Extreme ID. It can be removed by all usual methods, but if the afflicted party does so, it does five times the damage, and in an area about its centre, and equal to a seventh of the length, their vulnerabilties are modified so that a random element involved in the Lethal ID becomes a 1 Hit Death. If the attacker reifies Lethal ID, this does not occur.

Almighty ID combines the effects of Extreme, Toxic, and Critical ID. In addition, either just before or behind it, it modifies the enemy's vulerabilties to include a 1 Hit Death Vulnerability to an element *not* involved in the Almighty ID.

To achieve Almighty ID requires inflicting Imaginary Damage such that the vulnerabilities in play form a closed circle. The number of vulnerabilities must be greater than three, but are otherwise irrelevant. Fire←Water←Earth←Plant←(Fire) is just as valid a cycle as Metal←Fire←Water←Air←Plasma←(Metal)       
